---
layout: post
title:  "Philosophy - The Journey through FIRE"
date:   2022-03-03 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---

In Christianity, there is a quote which states “Idle hands are the devil’s workshop” If one does not immerse themselves with constructive activity, they may lean toward laziness, non-productiveness and trouble. Meanwhile, when people do have a purpose or a cause that’s greater than themselves, they will start to align themselves and modify their character and lifestyle to achieve it.

The biggest depression of my life occured when I reached age 23. It was the year I graduated from university and got my first full time job as a software developer. As a second generation immigrant, I have just accomplished a major milestone. The cookie cutter format of getting good grades(lolz), going to university, graduating and starting a career was finally finished. I also managed to pick a program that I have always shown interest in. I definitely  wasn’t the most passionate student in my program and I could never measure up to the ‘genius’ types. However, I did enjoy a majority of my classes and had a very fun time. Furthermore, the career that awaits me was in-demand so life should be easy for me moving forward.

As I started settling into my career, I slowly started to realize what I actually signed up for. By the time of writing this, I have already switched jobs many times, but I still have never developed any passion for these salaried positions. There was just something about working for these corporations that really irritated me. I’m perfectly capable of doing most of the work that gets assigned to me without needing much help but it all feels so soulless. I don’t really care about what or how well my company is doing as long as my team and I don’t get laid off. I’ve never felt compelled to contribute anything except exactly what’s asked of me. I feel like I’m stagnating, but there’s nothing in these giant corporations that I really want to do or learn. I always had a passion for technology and programming, but now that I’ve made it a career, I feel like it’s draining all my energy. 

I did not know it at the time, but I have lost purpose in life. Outside of my career, my free time that used to be filled with activity deteriorated to playing games and depression naps. Everyday felt like the same thing: I would wake up, go to work, commute home, eat, sleep and repeat. There is still a long way to go until retirement age at 65. I hated the fact that I was chained to continue working for these companies for the rest of my life. Despite my poor state of mind, I continued to advance my career through pay raises and job changes to maybe gain some new perspective. However, no amount of money or company change could fill the void of dissatisfaction. 

I never revealed any of these issues to anyone during this time. I felt people would not understand as from the outside, I am in a very privileged position. I am also naturally a very introverted person so I must have felt ashamed, embarrassed, arrogant or proud to seek advice outright. My immigrant asain parents thought I was just being too soft and privileged. My elder brother who was always my inspiration and meteor growing up I felt would not have solutions to this. From my perspective, he seems perfectly content working his day job. In fact, a majority of people I knew either did not seem to mind the endless grind of the rat race, or had accepted their fate. Have I really reached my pinnacle and would continue this path for the next 40 years?

In movies, there will always be some sort of dramatic event which will trigger the evolution of the protagonist. In Rocky, that would be when Apollo Creed gave Rocky the opportunity to fight. In Squid Games, it would be when Lee Jung-jae got selected to participate in the tournament. For me, this event would start at a party. At the party, I stumbled upon a person who’s words would change me forever. This person projected an aura that was very different compared to everyone I have encountered. This person was older than me, but his life experience was miles ahead of his age. This person seems to be knowledgeable about every single topic like he has done it before. He spoke with confidence, without being arrogant. He was assertive without being reckless. He lived a very disciplined lifestyle, but somehow he seemed so free. This person I would later find out was an entrepreneur. I would end up speaking with this person for the entire night. He would eventually set the seeds in motion where I would eventually find out it was called the Financial Independence, Retire Early (FIRE) movement. The aim of this movement was to accumulate enough money to eventually be free of depending on a regular job. The more I listened and later researched, the more I was hooked. Suddenly there was a light at the end of the hole. Fuck these corperations, there was a way to finally break from their golden handcuffs. My new purpose was simple: I needed to accumulate assets until the resulting passive income provides enough money for living expenses for the rest of my life.

The more I hung out and shadowed my new mentor, the more I was inspired to improve myself to be as successful as he is. I soon realized in order to change my given situation, I needed to improve myself. The mindset I had was not somebody that could accomplish my ambitions. I first started with the most recommended self-help and self-development books for successful people. The books I felt were good, I would write notes and reread sections to truly comprehend the knowledge. By the time of writing, I read so many self-development books that any new one I pick up feels the same as they would be trying to convey the same message. I then move to a phase of reading biographies of leaders and influential people. Reading through the lives of these people helped me gain insight into how successful people handle crises and solve complex problems. I would then move onto religion. I approached these topics with a very open mind. I knew many people that used them for self-improvement and I wanted to see for myself. I was not reading religion to become religious, it was just to become a better version of myself. From religion I moved to philosophy. If all those other topics were gateway drugs, philosophy would be the crack cocaine of enjoyment for me. I think some philosophy should be mandatory in schools just to teach the population to deep study of just about any subject. This topic category is literally the definition of abstraction, with philosophical, logic, and outside-the-box thinking. Studying philosophy will give you the invaluable ability to learn how to ask questions, in such a manner that the answer will be meaningful - regardless of how abstract the topic is. I would also like to clarify, I am by no means an expert in any of these topics above. I am simply listing the topics I feel helped me the most in my self-improvement.

Knowledge is power but knowledge without action is useless. Just like a person who reads about exercising and never actually goes to the gym, everything is useless if I do not change the way I act, think or live my life. I needed to rewire my brain so that everything is second nature and be a part of me. Aristotle said your character is developed through habituation - if you do a virtuous thing over and over again, eventually it will become part of character. Slowly, but gradually, I continued to improve myself to be a person capable of achieving my new goal.

In parallel to my self-improvement, I needed to actually start learning about finance. Luckily for me, I already had a high amount of savings from my salary and just living well below my means. Like self-development, I started reading every finance book I could find. I began experimenting in investing in different assets and opening small businesses. Even though I started with smaller scale businesses, the intricacies to run these operations successfully would require many different skills that would help me later on. Highly desirable soft skills were put into practice like communication, negotiations, management, leadership, risk management etc. Hard skills like accounting, Canadian laws, taxes, web design, SEO, import/export goods, graph analysis, house renovation were all put into practice. As some of these businesses and investments naturally failed, I stopped seeing failure as a bad thing, but just an opportunity to grow. 

As I progressively started accumulating more wealth and knowledge, I was able to start doing larger investments and businesses. The same skills I honed that worked for smaller businesses were all put to use and improved as I scaled. Negotiation and analytical skills that were once used for flipping small items from kijiji were used for much larger assets. The programming skills that I practice during my day job were put up for sale for consulting, personal projects and free-lance gigs. I rarely share any of this publicly, but people eventually caught on. People that had no idea of what I was doing, but took notice of my positive mindset changes and would reach out. It's just human nature that like-minded people naturally gravitate towards each other. My inner circle started filling up with other similar growth mentality individuals. Whether it's mental or physical self improvement, career, social standing they all had the mindset to climb upwards and become the best version of themselves. 

As I am approaching the end of my FIRE goal, I soon realized I might one day end up in the same position I was when I got my first career position. The loss of purpose after accomplishing another life milestone. There is a saying in Buddhism, “Before Enlightenment chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment, chop wood, carry water” What this quote is saying is before enlightenment, you hate your life. You chop wood and carry water, but secretly wish to get out of it all. You bear with these activities through habit and out of hopelessness, but you really wish you could do something else. After Enlightenment, you realized the emptiness of it all, so you see that there is nothing more important than chopping wood and carrying water. All activities are equalized, there is no preference, no discrimination. Because there is no “you”, no ego, no personality, no being, no separate individuality - there is no conflict. You have mastered your mind. This Journey to FIRE has taught me so many things from such a wide range of topics. Most importantly, it has honed my desire for self-improvement. This will continue well after I achieve FIRE. The person that first started the journey has matured. The world is a very large place and after achieving real freedom, it has opened up to me. One thing is clear though, I will never lose purpose in life again.
