---
layout: post
title: "[Personal Development] Buying My Freedom"
date:   2022-01-12 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


I have been living a minimalist lifestyle for a long time. The funny thing is that as I became wealthier, my life got simpler. It wasn’t a choice in the beginning, since I was just born poor. I also never had any money to spend on unnecessary things when I was a broke-ass student.  It never bothered me though since I never enjoyed going to the mall and always knew that consumerism would never contribute to my happiness.

My thought process goes; Each time I am thinking about buying something, I ask myself if it is really going to be useful for me and take some time to think about it. Surprisingly, it turns out that 95% of the time this product/service is not going to make my life better in any way. Otherwise, if I do think that would be a good thing for me to buy, then I ask myself if someone I know could lend it to me. If not, is this something I could buy used (Facebook Market, Kijiji)? Then I think is it worth the opportunity cost of spending my time finding the said deal? Only if the answer to the previous questions is no will I go to a store/online to try and find it on sale.

Frugality does not have to be a painful and difficult sacrifice. Frugality does not mean you must become a greedy, cheap bastard. Like people who love exercise or enjoy eating healthy foods, frugality can become a way of life that is both fun and financially rewarding. The one reward that I have been chasing for many many years - My Freedom.

Frugality can buy you the right to say no to activities that don’t fulfill you or make you happy. This shows itself most of all with your work career. Being a slave to your job means you can’t afford to walk away or take a job you enjoy more that pays less. How many employees stay in a particular job because of the shackle of income security? Before you reach the crossover point to financial independence, frugality and savings are the only leverage you have to control your work destiny. When you have less money going out each month, you can choose to take a lower-paying job or negotiate better terms with your existing job.

Once work is not such a burden, what else do you want to do with your life? Are there hobbies, activities, or contributions that reflect the essence of life for you? Frugality can actually buy you more time and flexibility for these life-enriching uses of your time. The wonderful thing about freedom is that the specific definition is so different for each one of us. If you want to put a true positive value on frugal choices, it helps to get clear on what life-enriching activities frugality is purchasing.  This can be a simple process of taking out a pen and piece of paper and writing it down. At least for me, most of the things I listed required much more time and flexibility than they did money. And for the things that required money, a little creativity and patience meant I could have them as well over time.

It's amazing how people see me working so hard and they think I’m chasing money. No,  I care about my freedom. In order to get that freedom, I need money. There aren’t any free lunches in this world. Money is simply a byproduct of my goal of freedom. Most people I talk to do not even seem to realize the actual “power” of money. So many people I’ve told my plan to of like saving enough money to literally “buy” myself time to do the shit I want to do. Even if what I do with that time doesn’t make me any money. Their response is always like “why would you wanna do that?” At the end of the day, even if you wanna do “something” with your time, whether it's like contributing to some charity or some effort. At the end of the day, you need money. Whether it's to fund yourself so you can trade that money for time and put physical effort into something, say educating people or working charity. That money has to come from somewhere. 