---
layout: post
title:  "Philosophy - What is yours Today, Belonged to Someone else Yesterday"
date:   2019-11-24 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---

Bhagavat Geetha -What is yours today, belonged to someone else yesterday


An issue was brought up to me and caused me to self-reflect on my own choices in life. This 40 year old man was after financial freedom and he thinks this presuit has made him become a shell of his former self. He explains how the pursuit of financial freedom caused his entire life to revolve around his business, getting new clients, keeping clients happy, making more money, etc. He has become constantly stressed and anxious about losing the wealth he has and the business he created. He talked about how when he was younger he was much more self-assured, confident, and unphased. Now that is older, he’s finding that he has much more to lose and it’s causing him to always be in a state of panic.
I was very interested in this man’s troubles as I too sometimes wonder if I could fall into such a state. Once I obtain my financial freedom, will I also be more stressed by just the thought of losing it all? 

With this question, I found my answer in the teaching of Siddhartha Gautama-the Buddha.
 
The way he saw it, power, certainty, good health, possessions; all these things are just an illusion and are only temporary. Instead of thinking of these things as things we own, think of it as we are only caretakers for a short time. The new house, my friends and family, my health, my personality are not really mine. I am simply a caretaker of these things for a certain amount of time before it gets passed on. Eventually, my new house will go to someone else, friends and family can drift apart or pass, my good health will eventually decline. This may seem all depressing, but once you realize you truly never possessed anything, how can you ever lose anything? If you cannot lose anything, you will look at things and events in your life differently. All these are temporary gifts you get during life. You will appreciate them all as they come and once they are gone.This man here is panicking over losing his business because he believes he could lose it. Whereas the Buddha would say if he looked at it from the perspective of just being a caretaker of the business, he will never suffer from the business being lost. He would also say he still has nothing left to lose. He is not not in control of anything, rather the universe has unfolded in such a way as to permit him to believe in this illusion today; but there is no guarantee for tomorrow. He truly has nothing; and so the good news is that he has always had nothing left to lose.


What are we working towards? What do we want to do when you FIRE? Build the life we want; don't forget to live it, and stop to smell the flowers along the way.

___________________

https://www.britannica.com/topic/maya-Indian-philosophy

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maya_(religion)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mental_factors_(Buddhism)#Twenty_secondary_unwholesome_factors