---
layout: post
title:  "[Personal Development][Philosophy] A Life Based On Virtues"
date:   2022-01-10 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


According to Aristotle, living a virtuous life leads to the highest good and ultimate end for a person, which is called “Happiness”. Living virtuously, according to principles allows your actions to be directed towards an end. I believe a person’s life should be lived by their principles/virtues. True virtues can be found and overlapped in many religions and philosophies. Common ones are benevolent, generous, courage etc. Most of these religions use these traits as benchmarks to reach their ultimate state of being  (going to heaven, obtain enlightenment, achieve eudaimonia, self actualization) for a reason.  If you live a principle centered life, your foundation is solid. 

A life based on other things might not be something we want. For example, let's say you have a great company and lots of money and you base your life on this. Your money and fortune is frail. You can lose it in an instant and your life will fall apart. Other people base their life on another person, let's say a relationship. That person might get sick and die, they might leave you etc, and your world will come crashing down. So it really doesn’t make sense to base your life on these things that are so easily taken away from you.

Virtues on the other hand teach that being a good person is the key to what you base your life on. These virtues are what makes somebody love you. Some people say I have unconditional love. I don't really believe that's really true. I think I love a person because they're honest, patience, courageous, they're loyal etc. They have these good virtues. Say for example you’re a CEO of a major company,but you're a piece of shit for a human being, I don't wanna be friends with you. You'll have a lot of friends, but me, personally, I don't want to be friends with you because it's going to be a fake friendship. I'm going to be there because I need something from you or whatever. The greatest virtue, according to Plato, is just being a good person.
