---
layout: post
title:  "[Personal Development][Philosophy] A Minimalist Finanical Freedom Mindset"
date:   2022-03-30 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


As my income has skyrocketed over the years I realized that I have finally passed the lean FIRE amount goal I set for myself all those years ago. Looking at how I lived back then and how I live now, it's pretty much the same. Sure, I spend a lot more now on self improvement and learning different skills, but I can confidently say I would be able to maintain my lifestyle if I made minimum wage. I would definitely have to cut back on things, but my happiness will be the same.

I own the same car, live in the same 75 square feet attic i grew up in, in my parents house, every piece of clothing i own is from facebookmarket/kijiji, fly coach and generally keep my purchases and possessions very minimal.

I focus almost all my time, money and resources on creating new experiences, self improvement and improving relationships. Not material chasing. I would say this has helped a lot with my financial life. 

I no longer have to worry about money. I often tell people this: if I go bankrupt tomorrow, my lifestyle will not change. I will STILL be living in my parents attic and won't miss any of my possessions.  I don’t stress about my income or bills because I don’t spend money on material items that don’t bring me real happiness. I seek only freedom and peace of mind.

I think on average, every month that goes by I reach a new level of happiness. Sure, there might be some down months, but my trajectory has only been going up for years. If happiness was a blue chip stock I would be Apple. When you spend your money on things that bring joy into your life like healthy foods, fun experiences, travel, personal growth and time with people that you love, I can guarantee that you will be happier (and richer) than when you spent money on the latest phones, TVs, clothes and cars.
