---
layout: post
title:  "[Personal Development][Philosophy] What is Mental Toughness?"
date:   2022-03-22 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


For me, mental toughness is seeing the good in all things. If something catastrophic occurs and shit hits the fan, you only see the good because there will always be good in all events. Let's say tomorrow a doctor tells me I'm going to die from cancer in six months. Well, I get to tell myself, I’m going to live at another level in these six months because I know my days are numbered. I can set all my affairs in order since I am blessed to get an early warning. Everyday for me is going to be like a year. Every second is going to be like hours because I'm going to appreciate it that much more. You have to see something positive in whatever happens because it's there. 
 
A person I look up to is Marcus Aurelius. He was the emperor of Rome at the height of its power.  His reign was full of tragedies; Parthata invading him from the east,  Germanic tribes invading from the North, Plague hit his whole kingdom, his children died at young age, and his friend started a rebellion. During his life he wrote private journals which went through his thought process during these tragedies. He explained how “Your mind will be like its habitual thoughts; for the soul becomes dyed with the color of its thoughts.” We can create a successful environment for ourselves when we work with ourselves and not against ourselves. Whether creating a reminder on our phone to stand an extra five minutes each hour, to set a goal every day to write 500 words towards our first novel, or anything other achievement we strive for. It begins with our thoughts. If we feed the good thoughts, we grow the pathways in our minds that will help to get us where we need to go. While if we continue to dig the same hole that we wish to get out of we will only sink deeper into the same thought processes that keep us where we’re at. Somebody who sees the positive in everything, you have to kill them to beat them. No matter how hard and low you put them, if there is ever a spark of hope, he still believes he can climb to the top. When somebody sees the negative and they start convincing themselves it's over. That person can be beaten. They already beat themselves. In my time in business, I realized really quickly that I was operating without a safety net. It can all go away tomorrow if something catastrophic happens. The thing I have to alway focus on is that spark of hope, no matter how low I go, I need to believe I can rise back up. That's the worst person to face. If that's your enemy, no matter what you throw at him, he will never go away until he dies. He'll never quit. In his mind, it's going to work out in the end, somehow or someway. I look around me all the time and I see people who are down and out and then come back to make it. This can be found everywhere from corporations, martial artists, business people etc These people only see a bad situation as temporary. 

The one book I always recommend to people the most is “The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People” The first habit the book talks about is “Being Proactive” instead of reactive. A reactive person would always find something else to blame for issues that arise. Oh you're late for a job interview, well that was the traffic’s fault and not mine. A proactive person makes zero excuses. He's not going to wait for somebody to come save him. He is going to take responsibility for his life and not blame circumstances. He is in control of his behavior. 
