---
layout: post
title:  "[Financial] Listing and Bidding Strategies for Toronto Real Estate"
date:   2021-09-13 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---



Having been a part of many winning bids, there are some patterns and strategies that I have learned. This is from my perspective as a flipper/investor. 

Never overpay - Evaluate the property and check the prices with compariables. There are properties that I would chase hard for, but most of the time, these properties are a dime a dozen. Just offer a fair/slightly below price. If you win the bid on the below price, great you just some value from just purchasing.  

Wall away - Always be ready to walk away. If the price gets too high or the deal isn't right anymore, just walk. There will be more opportunities to come.

Agents work for you - Impress them with your knowledge of the real estate game so they know you are not some pleb. If they are like minded, they will understand these “signals” you put out that you are not a one time deal. Remember, it only takes 5 months to get a real estate license, so the bar isn’t that high. You need to screen all these agents to separate the pretenders from the real deals. Agents will gravitate towards you , but you as an investor do not want any random agent. You want one that is young and hungry. These are the ones that go the extra mile for you during bidding and list

Off market Properties - You know those flyers you get in the mail telling you to sell your properties for cash? These are Unicorns, if you managed to find one of these, there is a massive value gain from just purchasing.
 
Knowledge is power - I’m always of the mindset of, if it's too good to be true, there is probably some shit going down. It's not to say that good deals do not pop up, but be mindful and do your research.  Risk management
 
Always be nimble and flexible - Any new information that pops up, be prepared to pivot your plan. New opportunities pop up and go in a matter of days, so always be ready. 

Think Win-Win - Always look at the other person's perspective, I've noticed a lot of people would rather be wrong than to lose. Try and come up with a solution where both of you come out thinking they are "winners” 
 
Look for nieces and gems that the masses might not see. Big lot and correct zoning? Build a tiny home. Separate entrance for basement and rough ins for another kitchen? Build a duplex. Look for ways to add value to the property that the masses do not know about or do not have the skillset to execute.

Play to your strengths - I like bidding on properties that have some kind of defect that pushes the masses away from bidding. This is because I have a history with renovations and I am comfortable doing the work. If the property is already complete,  there will be alot more competition for it and it opens it up to a wider audience of bidders

List Low  - I have no clue why people list properties with the price they actually want in Toronto. You want as much exposure as possible so if you list below the house's value, many more people will come and see the property.

Throw bully offers - Get a feel for the other agent to see what kind of price the selling wants. Throw preemptive offers if the price is correct with a deadline before the offer presentation. If they refuse or you lose, who cares. 
 
Always have an out - People get fucked by this and end up losing alot of money. Make sure on your bidding agreement you have a way for you to back out of the deal. I have seen too many people online lose their deposit because of some kind of issue and that does not look fun
