---
layout: post
title:  "[Philosophy] Epicurus on his 3 ingredients to Happiness"
date:   2018-01-10 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---

I was watching a documentary on Epicurus. It went over the lessons he shared with us about finding true happiness and fulfillment in our lives, while still living modestly.  Here is Epicurus’ 
3 ingredients to Happiness.


1)  Friendship - Epicurus tells us one of the keys to happiness is having friends. He states that seeing our friends only on occasion will not make us happy. He thought that we should see our friends every day and spend time with them every day. The way I interpret this he is talking about true friends. Going through life, we have many acquaintances, but not all are held in equal regard for openness and trust. This is for good reason of course, to not fully open ourselves because we fear they can’t be trusted. I think what Epicurus is saying is hang out more with your true friends and that can lead to a better and more peaceful life.


2) Freedom and Self Sufficiency - Being under the thumb of someone else was, according to Epicurus, an unhappy disaster waiting to happen. For this reason, he chose to live in a commune with a group of friends, where they grew their own food and didn’t have to work. This is the one that really caught my eye as I was amazed that my dumb ass could come to the same realization as Epicurus. One day, I wish to be free from the chains of this rat race and be finally free. Why do I count the days until the next long weekend? Why do I  worry when we don't do well in our performance reviews? Why do I worry about inflation or a crash in the stock market? I have a FIRE friend right now who is right now in Indonesia and he does not give a shit about the world news. He's fully content with farming rice in indonesia. 


3) Philosophical Thought - The final component of the happy life is engaging in philosophical or rational thought. That is, living an analyzed life. Epicurus believed that it was important to think about our life and examine our thoughts and feelings. Even though we try to limit our desires and do the things that make us happy, we may still occasionally feel anxiety and fear. I think this one encapsulates all mental health issues or people living in the past.  If we want to be happy, we need to explore these things and understand them. Any sort of baggage/regret you have hanging, seek help from friends and therapy and resolve them all. I guess both Epicurus  and  I are kinda biased too since we both enjoy philosophy.


Happiness is an all around subject that each person searches for in life, and Epicurus finds a way to explain to us how we can find the settled mind of happiness through these three ingredients. It's amazing how he managed to string this together back in 300 BC which could relate to anybody in the twentieth century. In our society today we make life difficult for ourselves for lack of this kind of education. I find that Epicurus is brilliant in his thoughts, and the system that we live in now pushes us to believe that one must work exceptionally hard to find happiness.
