---
layout: post
title:  "[Personal Development] The Corect Way to Deal with Failure"
date:   2022-01-02 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---

Many people aspire to be more compassionate. Treating others as we wish to be treated lies at the heart of many religious and spiritual traditions. However, we do not often extend that same courtesy to ourselves. We might even find that we are kinder to others than we are to ourselves. Why do you turn into your own worst critic and assume that if you treat yourself like crap, then this would motivate you to be better? When I started looking into this topic in my pursuit of FIRE, I started to realize that many people might be feeling these similar emotions everytime they fail regardless of their goals.

A pattern I have noticed among my peers is how they incorrectly in my opinion deal with failure. No matter how relatively small the mistake, as soon as it occurs, they become stressed, anxious and disconnected. They self-criticize themselves to a point where they become afraid of failure. I do wish to clarify that I am saying self-criticism doesn't work. People have sat through hours of me shitting on myself for failures and setbacks. Self-criticism definitely works, however, only as a slight negative motivator because of just how harshly you criticize yourself. Nobody likes getting criticized, even by yourself. You're kind of motivated to escape this type of self judgment. It's this fear and pressure that builds up every time you fail, making you more nervous and anxious to the point that you start self handicapping yourself. So on the chance that you do fail, you can avoid feeling like crap by blaming the failure on something else. This will lead to a point where to protect your self esteem, you don't even bother trying to avoid failure. This would become a self perpetuating cycle where you constantly never try and you never learn from your mistakes in fear of failure. 

Instead of just being a harsh critic to yourself, there's actually something else that people should do. It is called self-compassion. If a friend fails at something, what would you do to motivate them? It probably goes along the way of “it's okay, everyone fails. You can do better next time” which is the compassionate way of dealing with failure. If this works with other people, why do we treat ourselves so harshly? Countless studies show that self compassionate people are more likely to take action and reach their goals in life from dieting, smoking, finance, and even exercising. Self compassion is not about dismissing your failures and not trying anymore. Self compassion is similar to having your own personal coach or teacher who is firm, holds you to a high standard, but also helps you reach your goals.

Self compassion is something I have been successfully practicing for a long time.  I guess it's just something you develop subconsciously in certain conditions. Growing up in a slightly above-poverty immigrant family, failure has never been something out of the ordinary. It has been something that has been so conditioned in my brain since as youth I feel I deal with it very well. One of the biggest chain of failures actually occurred pretty recently. It started first with my crackhead tenants finding out it was impossible for me to evict them during covid so they stopped paying rent. This means I still had to find the money to pay the mortgage for the rental property or risk losing it. They also made it their job to destroy the property as much as possible. So even when they finally get evicted, there is going to be a huge headache after doing renovations. Also in the same period, I lost nearly six figures from daytrading in the stock market. This was just my hubris and inexperience thinking I was intelligent enough to play in those circles. Coincidentally, my aging mother had a life threatening situation that sent her to the ICU for a month during covid lockdown. An event that affected me greatly and really changed how I viewed and lived my life. Just for an extra cherry on top, I also got laid off from my full-time developer position losing a good portion of my annual income. To make it even more funny, this all happened in a span of 2-3 months. I would assume events like this happening consecutively would make a majority of people just give up. However, growing up like I did, I managed to get through them all in flying colors. What kind of mindset would you need to get through them?


I imagine myself on a wagon, on the road of life striving towards my goals. Everytime I fail, I fall off the wagon and drop into the mud. For me, falling off the wagon is not the problem just like failure isn’t the problem. The real problem is how I responded to it. Do I decide to get back on the wagon and keep going or just lay there in the mud?  Life is suffering, no matter how many times I get knocked down or I screw up, I will always get up and try again. My practice of self compassion strategies allowed me to learn from my mistakes, to take more action, and to keep getting back on the wagon.  We all want to reach our goals as quickly as possible. We all want to fast forward to the end result. But the reality is it's going to take years and years of hard work and to make sure that you don't give up in between those years. Self compassion is one of the few things that will keep you getting back on the wagon. 

The research I looked at is mostly based on Dr. Kristin Neff, who provided a strategy on how to break down the concept of self-compassion. First is self-kindness. Imagine someone you love failed at something. They worked very hard for months and they messed up and failed. Do you go in and start criticizing them? Do you call them a failure and tell them they will never make it? Or do you tell them everything is going to be okay, and they can try again and do better next time. I’m betting it's the latter, So why not treat yourself in the same manner? The second point is common humanity. Truly understand that everyone makes mistakes and you're not alone in this. Failure is a universal experience that we can all learn and grow from. Third point is to be mindful. Acknowledge the feeling as you fail. Do not ignore the feeling or suppress it. Be in the moment, learn and know where the failure came from.  Understand and learn what caused the failure and commit to improving and avoiding this in the future. Oftentimes we tend to forget all the little wins that we had and we only focus on the big negatives. Understand that this is just a moment, a small dot in your lifetime. The feelings that you have at this moment are fleeting and they'll disappear and others will soon take their place. 

Study after study shows that self-criticism doesn't create an environment that fosters high performance and improvement. It creates fear and which in turn makes it harder to work towards your goals. Compassion, on the other hand, helps you get serious about your growth and gets you closer to your goals.
