---
layout: post
title:  "Financial - My Prospective of TFSA vs RRSP for young Canadians PART 2"
date:   2020-02-13 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---



Check out part 1 for context. A further reminder this isn't financial advice, I am just a babbling idiot typing on the internet while listening to Beyonce on repeat. 


Should I contribute to TFSA or RRSP?


Like everything in life it really depends on your life situation. If I have to choose between the two, RRSP is the ideal option in a common but specific set of circumstances. That generally applies when you’re investing long-term for retirement, you’re in a reasonably high tax bracket (100,000+) the year you contribute, and you expect to enjoy a typical middle-class retirement in a lower tax bracket. While for everything else, I believe TFSA has all the advantages in every other situation, whether investing long-term for retirement or for a shorter-term goal.


With an RRSP, you get a tax deduction up front from making a contribution — generally resulting in a tax rebate — but all the money becomes fully taxable when you eventually take it out. On the other hand, with the TFSA, you don’t get a tax rebate on contributions, but you don’t pay tax on withdrawals either. Speaking from the perspective of a young working professional in Toronto, I think TFSA is the clear winner. If you are still relatively early in your career, you will most likely earn more than you do in the next couple decades. It will be a lot more advantageous to contribute to RRSP when you start peaking in my career compared to now to get a bigger tax break. 

TFSA accounts are far more Flexible compared to RRSP.  Dipping into a TFSA never has a tax impact, whereas you can expect to receive a big tax bill if you need to draw on your RRSP for a sudden need while you’re still earning a good salary. As soon as you withdraw from RRSP, that amount will get added onto your income and you will get taxed for that amount. Life is still long for us young people. You may THINK you don't need this money until you retire, but things change. I can think of many reasons for young people to want to withdraw their RRSP in the journey of life. You might lose your job, you may wish to purchase a house(there is a trick for this with RRSP, go ask IRL), start a business, etc but you will get taxed as soon as you withdraw it from an RRSP. There is no such penalty for TFSA.


What should I buy inside my TFSA or RRSP?


Here is some "No's"

Cash - Don't waste your contribution room with cash. Just leave this in your checking account or something. If it's just sitting there, it's a waste.

Guaranteed Income Certificates (GIC) - This shit doesn't even beat inflation with their 2-3% and most of them lock your money up. Just go make a EQ bank account and you will get similar returns but your money isn’t locked up

Mutual Funds - This is okay... But if you're going to buy Mutual Funds, I would argue just buy index funds/ETF.  The key difference is that you're buying the mutual fund directly from the fund company, whereas in the ETF you're buying from another person on the market. The fees for mutual funds are disgusting(2%~) vs ETFs are around(0.1%)  The choice is clear


Here is some "maybes” for most people


Individual Stocks and Bonds - This is good if you know what you're doing.  However I would like to link to the wise words of Warren Buffet. He said “I don’t think most people are in a position to pick single stocks,” he said during the Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholders meeting, which was held virtually this year from Omaha, Nebraska. “A few [are ], maybe, but on balance, I think people are much better off buying a cross-section of America and just forgetting about it.” Rather than owning just one or a few stocks and hoping it goes up, you’re better off owning a bunch of different companies. Some of your shares will likely take off, while others will remain neutral and some will drop. History shows us the latter should be favorable long-term. 


Cryptocurrencies - Again, this is good if you know what you’re doing. This is a High-risk High reward play. Do some real research and understand the technology. Please stop linking me to 15-second videos on tiktok of some person who made a lot of money off some coin.

Here is some Yes's


ETFs and Index Funds - This is the one I recommend for most Canadians. Index funds are similar to mutual funds in that they are a basket of stocks, bonds, commodities, etc. But unlike mutual funds, there isn't some fund manager there getting a huge cut of 2% off your earnings. For example, an index fund that tracks the S&P 500 will hold stocks that represent the composition of the S&P 500, and investors who hold that index fund are theoretically hoping to replicate the S&P’s annual return (i.e. market return). You may be on a stock platform, but you are not a day trader. This is something people get confused about all the time. There is a difference between investing in stocks and trading stocks. Both investors and traders seek profits through market participation. In general, investors seek larger returns over an extended period through buying and holding. Traders, by contrast, take advantage of both rising and falling markets to enter and exit positions over a shorter time frame, taking smaller, more frequent profits. Let's be realistic here, the chances of you being some stock genius is low. Also, the chances of you outperforming the SP500 as a trader in a 10 year span is also low. The most rational choice is to just pick an index fund and just continue buying. There is peace of mind as there is no thinking involved. Just continue to buy the same Index through thick and thin. It's low cost compared to the others on this list. And it's relatively safe compared to other investments.


_________________________

Millionaire Teacher: The Nine Rules of Wealth You Should Have Learned in School  - by Andrew Hallam

Wealthing Like Rabbits: An Original and Occasionally Hilarious Introduction to the World of Personal Finance by Robert Brown
