---
layout: post
title:  "[Personal Development] Aristotle's Concept of Eudaimonia As A Life Goal"
date:   2022-10-01 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


People often get the wrong impression of me and think i’m chasing financials or successful. My path might have started from there, but it has since evolved to something much greater. A topic of discussion among many of the great philosophers, Eudaimonia was purported as the answer for living well, as the ultimate goal of each human life. I seek Eudaimonia.

To achieve Eudaimonia, one must work every day at being a better person. That encompasses a variety of things: thinking critically, exercising wisdom, embracing and controlling your range of emotions, eating well, helping others when possible, pursuing goals, and developing deep personal relationships. A life of eudaimonia is a life of striving. It’s a life of pushing yourself to your limits, and finding success. A eudaimonistic life will be full of the happiness that comes from achieving something really difficult, rather than just having it handed to you. Its really similar to Eight-fold path’s right action if there are any Buddhists reading this.

Happiness would be what people might translate eudaimonia to be. However, our understanding of happiness doesn’t fully capture what the great philosophers speak of. If you consider that we think happiness as a momentary feeling, it does not match eudaimonia at all. Happiness is something unique to everyone. Somebody could find happiness in eating food. Others may derive happiness from doing drugs. Extreme examples might be someone can find happiness harming others. Happiness as defined by Aristotle is not measurable until one has passed away and only then can one determine if another individual has lived a fulfilled life

Aristotle believes that to achieve a state of eudaimonia, it is not through an accumulation of individual happy incidents that when reaching a certain quantity would equate to having lived a fulfilled life, nor could material gains or wealth define a well-fulfilled life. The philosopher believes that happiness in fact is “the end goal of every man” and in turn, it is to achieve a “means to a higher end.” This is because events of happiness may only be those of temporary relief and do not necessarily promote the fulfillment of an individual. We do daily tasks that may seem tedious or not immediately rewarding such as getting an education or general hygiene practices in the hopes of achieving something else.

The repetitive nature of these daily tasks may allow one to become a virtuous person who can achieve a state of eudaimonia. When doing these tasks, one must not act regarding the opinion of others or because he believes it to be the right thing to do, but rather by unconscious nature. One is only truly virtuous when virtuous behavior is exhibited by one’s own repeated habits and is conducted without the purpose or expectation of a response from the conduct (Hseih, 1997). The behavior in itself must be conducted for the purpose of its goal and not driven by an ulterior motive. By combining the repetitive virtuous nature as well as acting to promote the “enrichment of human life,” the highest human good can be achieved. 

Developing these natural habits can be difficult for some and Aristotle recognizes that there may be circumstances where one will face hardships of achieving a state of eudaimonia. Being born in a low socioeconomic status, having no children, family members, or loved ones; or even being extremely ugly can all hinder one’s ability to advance in living a virtuous life. An example of one of the worst conditions that may prevent one from living a virtuous life would be losing a loved one. This sort of event deprives one of the physical, mental, and emotional experiences invested into the individual throughout their relationship. The former issues are manageable as Aristotle advocates that the ability to exercise the “moral and psychological excellence” does not require physical appearance or performance, nor materialistic possessions. However, events that may deprive or associate tremendous pain with one’s psyche and moral grounds will pose the most difficulty in striving towards living a strong virtuous life. 

 Regardless of these hardships being present, it does not completely hinder the possibility for someone to develop these habits and better themselves with virtues. Aristotle defines happiness not as a virtue, the exercising of a virtue, or a temporary experience but rather the pinnacle of our existence that is only measured after we have lived our lives. By the continuous exercise of virtuous habits, one can have lived in a state of eudaimonia. These virtuous habits are summarized by a Chinese philosopher Lao Tzu in his statement “the highest virtue is not virtue and but inferior virtue cannot let go of being virtuous and therefore is not virtue.”  A Youtuber, After Skool, summarizes his statement to simply mean “the highest virtue is not consciousness of itself as virtue,” implying that one must act in good nature not because it is good or for a gain but because they are simply behaving off a habitual practice without any ulterior expectation. When one does this and establishes a natural repetition of behavior towards the acts, one will be able to live a happy life and have fulfilled their existence once they have passed. 
