---
layout: post
title:  "Philosophy - Aristotle's Eudemonia comparsion to Buddhism's Nirvana"
date:   2021-09-20 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---

Recently I have been going through all of Aristotle philosophy again, I came across the term “Eudemonia”.  Aristotle describes this as the ultimate form a human being can achieve.  From what he describes, the definition of Eudemonia is a life striving. It’s a life of pushing yourself to your limits and finding success. A eudaimonistic life will be full of happiness that comes from achieving something really difficult rather than just having it handed to you. I found this interesting as to me, it felt very similar to the Buddhist concept of achieving Nirvana. Nirvana is a place of perfect peace and happiness, like heaven. In Hinduism and Buddhism, nirvana is the highest state that someone can attain, a state of enlightenment, meaning a person's individual desires and suffering go away. I had to do some research to see what the difference was. It is truly a wonder when ideas from the East(Aristotle) and the West(Buddhism) arrive at the same conclusion despite cultures developing thousands of miles away. According to Buddhism, anyone who wishes to attain Nirvana must practice and develop Discipline (Morality), Concentration, and Wisdom. There is no other path to Nirvana than developing these three fundamentals. But they are all interlinked and must be practiced, not one by one, but together. I remember these Discipline (Morality), Concentration and Wisdom were the 8-fold paths of Buddhism. Once you achieve all 8, you have reached Nirvana. If Eudaimonia is defined as human flourishing, the difference is that Nirvana is the realization that humanity is just a word appearing to mind and not more than that. Nirvana is more of a state of mind. From being a farmer or working for FAANG, it doesn't matter. You could STILL be in a state of Nirvana whatever you are doing. Eudaimonia does seem very similar to Nirvana, but I guess from my limited understanding, it’s kind of like a subset of it. Where to achieve Nirvana, you must have also achieved Eudaimonia. In any case, we know what is the most desirable state: it is the enlightened nature of one’s mind, that which ensures security and creates common benefit, wisdom, and harmony (as opposed to ignorance and sufferings).


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eudaimonia
https://www.britannica.com/topic/eudaimonia
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1958/02/the-meaning-of-buddhism/306832/
https://tricycle.org/magazine/nirvana/