---
layout: post
title:  "[Old][Philosophy] Buddhism For Dummies"
date:   2019-06-20 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---

In my early 20s I got really interested in Buddhism and ended up doing a lot of reading on the topic. The topics they teach helped me alot throughout life. Here is a dummies guide I found funny from reddit


4 noble truths:

1) life can suck.

2) It sucks because we get attached to the stuff that we imagine makes ourselves "unique" and "special."

3) There is a way to not be affected by our suckness.

4) If we open our eyes and follow eight simple methods, we can be freed from letting the suckness affect us.

8 fold path:

1) No one is absolute nor omnipotent. We're all pretty ignorant.

2) If you don't learn to stop and say, "hey, i don't know" you're not going to change yourself in a way that's going to free you from the suckness.

3) Don't open your mouth without considering wtf it's going to sound like to the person on the receiving end.

4) You're not the center of the universe. Your actions not only affect everything around you, they can affect everything around the people around you. Don't do stupid shit that's going to hurt other people or yourself.

5) Don't take action that's going to make life suck for other people at your benefit.

6) If something pisses you off, figure out if you need to fix yourself first. Otherwise,

7) Know the consequences of your actions. Moreover, everyone has their own reality and their own right to their own level of dumbfuckery. When you make a mistake (you will), don't be proud, admit it, and be open to remedy yourself and the situation. And when in a group take care to not act unless it benefits the group in some way.

8) If you don't pay attention to the task at hand you're going to have a bad time


___________

https://old.reddit.com/r/Buddhism/comments/14a8nc/the_premise_of_buddhism_in_simple_english/