---
layout: post
title:  "[Personal Development] Aristotle's Concept of Eudaimonia"
date:   2022-10-10 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


People often get the wrong impression of me and think i’m chasing financials or successful. My path might have started from there, but it has since evolved to something much greater. A topic of discussion among many of the great philosophers, Eudaimonia was purported as the answer for living well, as the ultimate goal of each human life. I seek Eudaimonia.

To achieve Eudaimonia, one must work every day at being a better person. That encompasses a variety of things: thinking critically, exercising wisdom, embracing and controlling your range of emotions, eating well, helping others when possible, pursuing goals, and developing deep personal relationships. A life of eudaimonia is a life of striving. It’s a life of pushing yourself to your limits, and finding success. A eudaimonistic life will be full of the happiness that comes from achieving something really difficult, rather than just having it handed to you. Its really similar to Eight-fold path’s right action if there are any Buddhists reading this.

Happiness would be what people might translate eudaimonia to be. However, our understanding of happiness doesn’t fully capture what the great philosophers speak of. If you consider that we think happiness as a momentary feeling, it does not match eudaimonia at all. For myself to achieve a eudaimonia, my overall state of being would be happiness. 

As part of Aristotle's ethical framework he believed a good life consisted in expressing virtue and exercising reason, which then lead to eudaimonia. All of this had nothing to do with the feeling of happiness.That being said, Aristotle would say that this state of eudaimonia lead to the feeling we now call happiness today - at least in most cases.
