---
layout: post
title:  "[Philosophy] My Three Pillars of Happiness - Epicurus"
date:   2022-08-01 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


The Three Pillars of Happiness - Epicurus

1) Cultivate True Friendships

Epicurus wasn’t interested in sex or romance. He argued that our obsession with romantic relationships is, in fact, the cause for a lot of misery.

I would go so far as not to fully trust/do business with someone who cannot get sex. Just like you would not fully trust a truly starving person with food, sex is such a tempting force for someone that they would betray you very fast for it. Instead, Epicurus suggested that true, meaningful friendships are fundamental to our happiness.

Friendships are not marred by the same bitterness, jealousy and resentment that romantic relationships often are. Therefore, instead of searching tirelessly for lovers or sex, we should spend our time cultivating positive relationships with our friends.

The only issue with friendships, he stated, is that we just don’t see our friends enough. Life gets in the way, and often we neglect those dearest to us in favour of other pursuits. In addition to this, many of us are reluctant to open ourselves fully to our friends because we fear that they can’t be trusted or that we’ll be met with rejection.

We may have many friends and acquaintances, but not all are held in equal regard where trust and openness are concerned. Personally I have grown very distance towards friends that have not been true friendships. People that are lack of motivation, cheaters, liars and fakes will simply make my life more stressful. Their problems will bloggle me down and will waste my brain power and time.  Seneca suggests, they will only impact us negatively should we admit such people to our friendship. It is better to commit to friendships that uplift and enlighten us.

Seneca held that true friends should inspire us to improve and become happier. They should have our best interests at heart. Seneca also advises that, when we ultimately decide that a person should be accepted into our lives, we should welcome them wholeheartedly and trust them fully.

Such relationships will enable us to lead better, more peaceful lives. That’s the first pillar of happiness.


2) Produce Meaningful Work

The next thing that many of us feel we need in order to be happy is wealth.

Though Epicurus’s ideas were formulated almost two-thousand years ago, today we are more motivated by money than ever before. So much so, in fact, that the majority of us spend our entire lives working hard in the hopes that someday we will have enough money to buy an expensive house and retire early.


Our obsession with earning money wills us to work tirelessly, driving ourelves to exhaustion and causing us tremendous amounts of stress and unhappiness.

Epicurus argues that the key to satisfaction in our working lives isn’t earning a lot of money, but the knowledge that we’re producing meaningful work.

People always think i’m obsessed with money and insane when i work 100h work weeks. I do not consider any of my side businesses work because I learned to love what I do. I am also fortunate enough to be rich enough to actually quit any of my businesses if I lose interest. I am no longer a slave to money. The work I do is meaningful and it makes a difference.

We all long to feel that we’re making a difference. Deep down, we don’t care about large sums or job titles, but the feeling that we’re playing our part in making the world a better place for other people.

In order to live happily, it’s critical that we love our work. After all, it’s this work that comprises a large chunk of our time. It only makes sense that we do the things we enjoy, and few things deliver as much joy as the knowledge that we’re helping others.

3) Learn to Live Happily With Less

Lastly, Epicurus considered our fixation with desire.

We seek to fill gaps in our lives by chasing after our wills and drives, such as striving to earn more money, get in shape or find a romantic partner. We endlessly follow our desires in the hope that, by achieving them, we will finally feel happy.

Living as a minimalist has cleared my brain of any attachment to material. I have spent alot of last summer living a digital nomad lifestyle in my car. Sleeping in a sleeping bag in my car.  I often fantasy and reminisce about my poverty days where I had to sleep on a mattress in the living room. The family would be encourage me saying Johnny is going camping! I never felt unhappy when I had nothing. I do not chase material. Pursuing these desires only delays the arrival of peace.
