---
layout: post
title: "[Philosophy] A Page From Marcus Aurelius’ Meditations On Motivation"
date:   2021-04-18 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


“At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: ‘I have to go to work—as a human being. What do I have to complain of, if I’m going to do what I was born for—the things I was brought into the world to do? Or is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?

—But it’s nicer here…

So you were born to feel ‘nice’? Instead of doings things and experiencing them? Don’t you see the plants, the birds, the ants and spiders and bees going about their individual tasks, putting the world in order, as best they can? And you’re not willing to do your job as a human being? Why aren’t you running to do what your nature demands?

—But we have to sleep sometime…

Agreed. But nature set a limit on that—as it did on eating and drinking. And you’re over the limit. You’ve had more than enough of that. But not of working. There you’re still below your quota. You don’t love yourself enough. Or you’d love your nature too, and what it demands of you. People who love what they do wear themselves down doing it, they even forget to wash or eat. Do you have less respect for your own nature than the engraver does for engraving, the dancer for dance, the miser for money or the social climber for status? When they’re really possessed by what they do, they’d rather stop eating and sleeping than give up practicing their arts.”



It’s 20F outside and you have to de-ice your car, get on the highway where you know traffic is going to be a slog yet again, and you still need to finish that report you’ve been putting off since the previous week. It’d be so much easier just to stay in your warm bed, silence your alarm, and act as if none of it was happening.

But, it is happening. Everything that needs to be done has one key component. You. You can dread about the day. Complain of the injustice that is leaving your bed. Never fully accepting that to truly build yourself you need to take ownership of yourself. But, this isn’t in our nature if we choose to stay in bed, and not rise from our bed and meet the day to the best of our ability. As Marcus Aurelius put it, ““At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: “I have to go to work—as a human being.”. 

There’s a plethora of excuses we can make to ourselves, “To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?”, but there’s only one thing you really need to ask yourself when waking in the morning. Is this truly where I need to be?