---
layout: post
title: "[Personal Development] Are Sufis Muslims? Do Sufis believe in reincarnation? Can a Sufi be an atheist?"
date:   2023-12-21 15:36:27
categories: jekyll update
---


Yes, Sufis are Muslims. But for complete understanding, this must be answered in two ways. First of all, there are many Sufis who are members of the Muslim faith. Secondly, there are Sufis in the world who are not members of the external religion of Islam, yet still are Muslims.

Clearly, an explanation is in order, for too many people don’t understand the deeper, universal meaning of what a Muslim is. If they did understand it, your question would have been unnecessary.

First and foremost, a Muslim is any person who strives, to the best of their ability, to submit their individual human will (ego) to the greater Will of Allah (God). Any person who fits this description, even if they are not perfect, and no matter what traditional religion they follow… is a Muslim.

This is Islam in the deeper, universal sense… in other words, as Sufis understand it. That being said, there certainly are people in the Islamic world who go by the name of Sufis, but who yet offer a more fundamentalist idea of what Sufism is, and what authentic Sufis must conform to. This is a result of their having been influenced by fundamentalism within their culture, so whatever they say must of course, be taken with a grain of salt.

That being said…. historically, there have been some Sufi orders and Sufi teachers who have initiated people of other religions, and have not required conversion to the external religion of Islam…. at least not in the sense of having to leave their previous religion behind. Many inter-spiritual Sufis who do not leave the religion of their birth behind, yet also adopt some Islamic beliefs and practices. The famous Jewish sage and historian Maimonides was initiated by an Islamic Sufi master, and became a Sufi master in his own right. Yet he remained a Jew. But he was a Jew who also considered himself a Muslim, in the deeper spiritual sense explained above. Maimonides initiated his own son in the mysteries of Sufi practice in a Jewish context, and thus was born a traditional Jewish Sufi lineage.

There have been Christian Sufis, and even Sufis of other religions. The modern Sufi teacher Irina Tweedie, after being guided in a series of visions to seek out a spiritual personage who kept appearing to her, actually found that person in India. He was an enlightened Sufi teacher in the Naqshbandi lineage, who happened to be a Hindu (even though most Naqshbandi Sufis are Muslims).

The Sufi teacher Hazrat Inayat Khan, the first person to introduce Sufism to the Western world, did not require any of his initiates to convert to Islam, though he was himself a very devout Muslim. He was a devout Muslim who studied and garnered spiritual wisdom from the scriptures of all the religions of the world. His own Sufi teacher Abu Hashim Madani - also a devout Muslim - encouraged Inayat’s study of various religious scriptures, even though many of his fellow students did not understand it, because they did not have the same capacity for spiritual understanding. In time, Abu Hashim Madani sent Inayat Khan to the West, and specifically instructed him to initiate people without requiring conversion to Islam. Of course, any of these initiates still had the freedom to convert to Islam if they so desired.

This was not unusual, given Inayat Khan’s lineage in the Chishti Sufi order. In past times, a famous Chishti Sufi spiritual master who had hundreds of students, announced his intention to travel to the temple of Kali in India, to worship there. Most of his students, not understanding that God can be understood in a multitude of ways, left him. Only one student remained, who accompanied him on his journey, with the explanation: “Teacher, the first lesson you taught me was that only God exists. If this is true, how can it be wrong for you to worship Allah under this other form?” At this point, the teacher realized that he had finally found his first real student, with the capacity to understand and realize the teachings.

In modern times, a disciple of Inayat Khan named Murshid Samuel Lewis, traveled to the East after his teachers’ passing. There, he met and was initiated by various Sufi teachers, all of whom recognized him as an enlightened Sufi teacher. One of these was the famous Pakistani Sufi saint Pir Barkat Ali, who instructed Samuel that upon his return to America, he was to teach “Christian Sufism” to the people there.

You see, Sufism predates the religion of Islam that began with the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH). But the universal Islam of the heart, has always existed, and Sufis of this universal Islam have always existed.

And a real Sufi never interferes with the religion of another. Rather, he simply offers guidance and friendship to all, without bias against the path of any, to help them reach their goal, regardless of the faith into which they are born, or to which their own heart has guided them.

If you will begin to understand that in the truest sense, any and all authentic religious practice (stemming from any religious cultures), all constitute so many forms of this eternal, universal Islam, then you will begin to understand that all souls are on the path toward Sufism, which is the state of spiritual perfection.

And there is no one religion that is the sole requisite for a soul to trod this path.

There is one more aspect to your question that is a little more difficult to answer, for the simple reason that the average person is not familiar with the deeper, more subtle aspects of religious practice and mystical experience… and that is your question as to whether a Sufi can be an atheist.

Let us explore, for a moment, what theism is. Otherwise, we will not understand what atheism is, in a deeper sense.

Theism is the idea that the Divine Source from which our own lives, and indeed all of Creation, has come…. is a “Divine Person.” Theism is by definition, an anthropomorphic conception. In other words, the Infinite Being is defined (and even limited within) metaphors related to human beings, including the human form, and characteristics of the human mind. Only, this metaphor is applied on a cosmic scale, rather than a small, or individual one.

You must know, if you’ve never been told, that there are indeed religions that strive toward the divine Source of our being, but without conceiving it in anthropomorphic fashion. Yet its practitioners are still deeply religious, in the truest sense of the word. According to the original meaning of the English word religion, stemming from the latin root “ligare” (meaning to bind or unite), practitioners of these other religions are yet striving towards union with this divine source, even though they do not ascribe human characteristics to it, or form of any kind.

In this category, would be any religion that has a deeply non-dual emphasis, on the unity of existence, in which the artificial line between creature and Creator is blurred. Non-dual Vedanta philosophy, as well as most forms of Buddhism fit this definition, and are yet striving toward the same God we strive toward, even when they do not use the word God.

There have also been many Sufis throughout the centuries, whose mystical experiences of union with a formless God, would place them in a similar category, at least as far as the fundamentalists are concerned. They do indeed believe in God, but for the simple fact that their experience of union with Him transcend form, they would still by definition, be classified by some, as atheist.

Now that it has been explained that by definition, non-theism does not necessarily mean that a person rejects God - only that they do not ascribe form or human characteristics to God, it should be remembered that in the religion of Islam, it is considered Shirk (forbidden) to ascribe form to God. This being the case, from another perspective, some ignorant person could actually accuse all Muslims of atheism. In particular, fundamentalist Christians believe that God must be conceived as a person, which is in direct opposition to the Islamic injunction against ascribing form of any kind to God.

This should go to show you that often in this life, labels of any kind can be very misleading, especially when applied from the mindset which sees everything from within a mindset of narrow, black and white views.

Clearly, more education is necessary for many people.

That being said, there are also people who conform to the common idea of what atheism is. But those are not the people being referenced here. And most definitely, none of them are Sufis.

Good luck on your path, and peace be with you.

https://www.quora.com/Are-Sufis-Muslims-Do-Sufis-believe-in-reincarnation-Can-a-Sufi-be-an-atheist